


# About Landscape and Canonical



## Canonical and Ubuntu

Canonical Ltd. is a private company that develops and distributes open source
software and provides service and support, along with training, certification,
and legal assurance. Its primary product is Ubuntu, a free, open source Linux
distribution that runs on both client and server computers. Canonical releases
new versions of Ubuntu twice a year. [Read more about the latest
release](http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/whats-new).

## Landscape

Landscape is a system management tool designed to let you easily manage
multiple Ubuntu systems - up to 40,000 with a single Landscape instance. From
a single dashboard you can apply package updates and perform other
administrative tasks on many machines. You can categorize machines by group,
and manage each group separately. You can make changes to targeted machines
even when they are offline; the changes will be applied next time they start.
Landscape lets you create scripts to automate routine work such as starting
and stopping services and performing backups. It lets you use both common
Ubuntu repositories and any custom repositories you may create for your own
computers. Landscape is particularly adept at security updates; it can
highlight newly available packages that involve security fixes so they can be
applied quickly. You can use Landscape as a hosted service as part of [Ubuntu
Advantage](http://shop.canonical.com/index.php?cPath=41), or run it on
premises via Landscape On-Premises.

## Ubuntu Advantage

Ubuntu Advantage comprises [systems management tools](http://www.canonical.com
/enterprise-services/ubuntu-advantage/landscape), [technical
support](http://www.canonical.com/enterprise-services/ubuntu-
advantage/support), [access to online resources and support
engineers](http://www.canonical.com/enterprise-services/ubuntu-
advantage/support), [training](http://www.canonical.com/enterprise-services
/ubuntu-advantage/knowledge), and [legal assurance](http://www.canonical.com
/enterprise-services/ubuntu-advantage/assurance) to keep organizations on top
of their Ubuntu [server](http://www.canonical.com/enterprise-services/ubuntu-
advantage/server), [desktop](http://www.canonical.com/enterprise-services
/ubuntu-advantage/desktop), and [cloud](http://www.canonical.com/enterprise-
services/ubuntu-advantage/cloud) deployments. Advantage provides subscriptions
at various support levels to help organizations maintain the level of support
they need.

  
